Born and brought up in Delhi, he was a brilliant student and an all rounder. At St. Columba's School he won the prestigious 'Sword of Honour'. He was also the captain of his football, hockey and cricket teams all at the same time. After sustaining a football injury, he started to consider acting as a career. He graduated with honours in Economics from Hansraj College and did his masters in mass communications from Jamiya Miliya Islamia. Khan then went on to study theatre under the reputed Mr. Barry John whom he credits for carving out the actor inside him but his mentor considers his pupil as being solely responsible for his greatness and glory citing Shahrukh to have the perfect combination of 'talent, perseverance, belief in yourself, a never-give-up-attitude and of course, a bit of luck'; factors needed for success.

The King began his journey by landing the lead role of a commando in 1988 drama series Fauji (1988). He was much applauded for his work and soon became the heartthrob of teenage girls bagging roles in other serials as Circus (1989) and 'Dil Dariya', the former being delayed due to various reasons. He also had a minor role in a made for television film called In Which Annie Gives It Those Ones (1989).

His big screen debut came in the form of Deewana (1992) where he acted alongside the then top actress of Bollywood Divya Bharti and won the prestigious Filmfare award for Best Debut Actor Male. He had also starred earlier in a small role in 'Dil Aashna Hai'. This was followed by another hit in the form of Raju Ban Gaya Gentleman (1992).

After a few more films which did average or less at the box office, Khan made the unique choice against all advice to opt for negative roles and played obsessive, somewhat psychotic characters in Darr (1993) and Baazigar (1993). To everyone's surprise the films were massive hits and Shahrukh earned his first Best Actor award and was also nominated in the villainous role category. His acting was applauded by all in the film industry and carved a niche for future King. The same year he bagged the Critics Award for best performance in Kabhi Haan Kabhi Naa (1994), a film he often recalls as amongst his favourites.

A series of hits followed to what would be remembered as one of Khan's most iconic performances; a film which is arguably India's biggest blockbuster and truly complete with the very best of drama, comedy, romance, thrills and a bit of action as well. The epic Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge (1995) was released on 20th October 1995 and as of 2011 still plays in a Mumbai theatre, thus being the longest running film in the history. Coincidentally Hollywood superstar Tom Cruise was the initial choice as the main lead but the role went to Shahrukh who is now nicknamed 'Tom Cruise of India'.

Khan has come a long way since then with a string of hits under his belt which include some of Bollywood's biggest in both national and international markets namely Kuch Kuch Hota Hai (1998), Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham... (2001) , Devdas (2002), Swades (2004), Chak de! India (2007), Om Shanti Om (2007), My Name Is Khan (2010), Ra.One (2011) , Don 2 (2011), Jab Tak Hai Jaan (2012)and the highest grossing Chennai Express (2013) thus making him the undisputed megastar of India with a record number of Best Actor trophies and numerous Power awards.